We will go through an example IAM policy which allows an application access
to an AWS service to demonstrate that although permissions are limited,
they are not following the least privileged model.
We will also explore the use of IAM permission boundaries as
a way to safeguard improper IAM policies.
In this example, I have an application that uses
a role which allows it access to the S3 service.
The application will be run as an AWS Lambda function.
Looking at the code, we can see that it will be writing and deleting
file objects in an S3 bucket using the put object and delete object calls.
The Lambda function will use an execution role to make API calls.
Let's see what permissions this role has.
As you can see, the role currently has full read and write access to S3,
as it is using the AWS managed policy.
If we take a deeper look at this policy,
we can see that it can read and write data to all S3 buckets in the account.
Now if this code were running on
an application server instance which became compromised due to some vulnerability,
it can and does happen,
an actor could potentially gain access to other S3 buckets to
ex-filtrate sensitive data or take on a number of other similarly malicious actions.
So I will need to create a new policy for this role
to only be able to write to a specific bucket.
In order to create the policy,
I first need to determine what permissions are required.
So I'm going to go back to the Lambda function code,
because the best way to understand what permissions are needed is to
look at the application code and understand what API calls are being made.
So let's take a look at the code.
We can see from the application code that
the put object and delete object calls are being made.
We can also see the specific S3 bucket resource that it will need to write to.
So the IAM policy will need to be restricted to
these actions on the specific S3 bucket resource.
So I will create a new IAM policy which will
provide least privilege access for this role.
I'll use the tool in the console to choose which service I want to use,
that's going to be S3, and which actions I want to take on this S3 service.
In this case, I would like to use the put object and delete object calls.
I also need to specify which resources that these actions are allowed on,
and that's going to be our specific S3 bucket.
So I'm going to go back to the code and copy the bucket name.
Let's review our policy and let's give it a name.
So now let's take a look at the policy that I created.
We can see the full policy here.
It's only allowing these two calls on objects within the specific S3 bucket.
Now, let's go back to the role and remove
the overly permissive policy and replace it with this new policy.
So we're going to remove the S3
full access and we're going to add the new policy that we created,
the least privileged policy.
We can also make use of a permissions boundary,
which adds an additional layer of restriction in case the original IAM policy,
which allowed full access to S3 is added again to the role.
In this case, we could add a permissions boundary to only allow S3 puts and deletes,
or I could just use the restrictive policy that I just created.
Minimum, this would have prevented a data ex-filtration scenario if
another policy was added to the role that was allowing more permissions.
So you should have a better understanding now of how we can fine tune
an IAM policy and how this can make the environment more secure.